---
title: When it Crashes Down
description: So Now What?
date: "2023-05-31 00:00:00"
publishDate: "2023-05-31 00:00:00"
draft: false
---

Well, what had been bottling up finally broke through. It's really hard to believe. Like other crises, it happens very [gradually and then all at once](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Sun_Also_Rises).

I can't get into it too much, but today was my last official day at [Wagz, Inc](https://wagz.com). I will continue to provide support as available. For those who know me, Wagz has been a startup I helped build since 2016. In that time, I've watched junior engineers grow into outstanding leaders and experts. We've launched a lot of awesome features, have a ton of "you saved my pet!" stories, and overall we really built something awesome.

We did make mistakes. If you don't make mistakes, are you even trying? But alas, here we are.

I am sure more will come out soon enough. If you are hiring, please take a look at some of the other employees we lost. If you are looking for a senior Go engineer who loves building and leading, I'm available immediately as well.

I spent Memorial Day weekend reflecting. I am still processing my thoughts on this. Ultimately, this will pass, but in the meantime, it's like losing a good friend. Sure, the memories are there, but the future I envisioned just isn't there anymore.

Anyway, I have a lot to think about. I am still helping where I can, and trying to help some truly amazing folks land some truly amazing opportunities. If you are hiring, you can check out my [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/kevinheaton) or you can shoot me an email.

In the meantime, it's time to catch up on some things I had been putting off. It's been a hot minute since I've played with Python3, so maybe it's time to dust off [my previous learning recommendation]({{< ref "/post/new_tech/project_overview.md" >}} "my previous learning recommendation").

And in case you noticed, I chose to take down my blog posts from during my time at Wagz that had really anything to do with Wagz, outside of posts like my tech stack preferences, of which there are minimal. This was a personal decision, of my own volition, and was not forced to do it. I know that removing things from the internet is a Bad Thing, but at this time I think it's the right decision. We will see what the future brings.

For now, it's time to refocus, resettle, reenergize, and spend some quality time on other things.
